# Disease-prediction-Project
People can access a system that offers them medical guidance and strategies, as well as a tool to help them identify their illness based on the symptoms.People nowadays suffer from various diseases due to the environment and their lifestyle choices. As a result, predicting disease at an early stage becomes a critical responsibility for the prevention and treatment of disease. The development of a Primary Disease Detection System based on machine learning algorithms can aid in a more accurate diagnosis than the current methods. It has significant advantages for people who don't wish to visit a hospital or clinic for their initial diagnosis and also for the healthcare industry. People can access a system that offers them medical guidance and strategies, as well as a tool to help them identify their illness based on the symptoms. The system also gives a brief description of the disease, the percentage of severity of the symptoms, the precautionary measures that can be undertaken for that particular disease, the type of doctor to be consulted as well as a url for having further knowledge of the disease. Machine Learning classification algorithms are employed on the provided dataset to predict the disease. Out of the different algorithms used, the K Nearest Neighbour classification algorithm is found to have the highest accuracy of 99% and thus better performance. Hence, KNN is used for building our prediction model. It is implemented using the Python programming language, and a graphical user interface (GUI) has been created to display the findings. The machine learning model with the best performance was deployed using Python flask.
